Onto our next step where we're going to calculate an expiration date for this order.
So I've said in a lot of diagrams that we're going to say that the order expires after 15 minutes.
Again, it doesn't really matter what the expiration time is.
It can be 15 minutes, 15 seconds, no difference.
For this step.
All we really have to do right here is create a JavaScript date object.
If we go back over to our order model file, you'll recall that we said that when we create a new order,
we were going to provide a date object.
So that's a plain JavaScript date object, nothing fancy about it.
So to create an expiration date, we'll say expiration.
Is a new date object.
When we create a new date object, it will be given a date value or a time essentially of right now,
this instant in time.
So we now want to take a look at this expiration or this object we just created.
And we want to advance it forward.
We want to point it, say, 15 minutes into the future or 15 seconds or whatever it is to do so we can
write out to expiration.
Dot set seconds and then we will pass an expiration get seconds, plus some number of seconds to add
on.
So if you want this thing to expire, 15 seconds in the future, we would put in just 15.
If we want this to expire 15 minutes in the future, we would put in 15 times 60 and that would be 15
minutes.
Now we probably do not want to bury a very important configuration variable like this inside of some
line instead of side of some hidden root file.
So I'm going to extract this expiration time into a really big, very well declared variable at the
top of the file.
So up here at the very top, I'm going to create a constant and call it expiration window seconds.
So this is going to be the number of seconds before the order expires.
And I'm calling it window to say this is the window of time that a user has to actually pay for this
order.
So for me, I'm going to make this right now 15 minutes.
So I will put in the 15 times 60 like so.
Now, even writing this out as a really big constant at the top of the file still kind of buries it
inside of our application.
This is potentially a very important setting right here because it dramatically affects how our application
behaves and how long a user has to actually build or purchase the ticket.
So you might want to extract this thing into possibly an environment variable that would allow you to
make changes to that window of time without having to redeploy the entire application.
You could instead just update the value inside of your Kubernetes config file inside that infrared directory.
Alternatively, you could even get fancier than that.
You could try to save this number of seconds as a record to the database and then put together some
kind of web UI that would allow an administrator to change it on the fly.
You might even want to have some kind of per user expiration settings, but for right now, I think
this is just fine.
Good enough.
So I'm going to go back down.
And rather than doing the plus 15 by 60, I'll put an expiration.
Window seconds like so.
And I'll collapse my sidebar so you can see that whole line.
So we're on to the last steps right here.
We're going to build up our order and save it to the database.
Well, this is going to be very similar to some code that we saw when we were discussing that Mongo
or Mongoose reference builder just a moment ago.
We're essentially just going to build up a normal model.
We'll say, let's make an order.
Using the order build method.
We can then use TypeScript to remember what attributes we have to provide.
So we got to give a user ID status, blah, blah, blah, all that stuff.
So let's throw in the user ID first.
This will come from recurrent user ID.
Remember that TypeScript really does not think that that current user property is defined.
So if we mouse over it.
It's going to tell us.
Oh, yes, current user right here.
It might possibly be undefined.
And so if I look at the second error, that's what I was looking for.
Object is possibly undefined.
But remember, we've been over this several times.
We already doing a check to make sure recurrent user is defined inside that require auth middleware.
So we feel pretty much just fine saying that.
Yeah, this thing definitely has a current user property assigned, so I'll put in an exclamation like
so telling TypeScript.
Don't worry about it.
Next up, we need our status.
We technically are setting a default status on the order, but our actual type or our interface is expecting
us to provide a status.
So we do have to put in a status here of order.
Status dot created, which is the initial status that all orders are going to get.
Well then set that expires at.
Which is going to be just the entire expiration object that we just created a moment ago.
And then finally the ticket that we found just a little bit ago.
So throw in the ticket as ticket, and naturally we can condense that down to just be ticket.
It looks good.
So after building the order, we'll then save it to the database.
So we'll do in a wait order.
Save.
As I mentioned a little bit ago, we don't have any infrastructure right now to emit an event saying
that order was created.
So right now, we'll just skip on to a sending back response to the user.
We'll do a resource status.
Of 201 to say that a record was created and let's send back the entire order.
All right.
That should be it.
We are pretty much done with this new route handler to create a new order.
However, we don't really know if this stuff works yet, so we're going to take a pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we are going to start to write out some automated tests to make
sure that all this logic works as expected.
As I mentioned at the start of this order, service not required for you to write tests around the stuff.
However, I really do recommend you still download the completed test that I write and run them inside
of your project just to make sure that everything is actually working as expected.
Because debugging this stuff, well, it starts to be a little bit tricky if you're going to debug it
once you're actually using it from the React application.
So let's do a little bit of test setup in just a moment.